---
layout: post
title: SDC2020
sitemap: false
---

# SDC2021: Challenges and Effects of EDSFF-based NVMe-oF Storage Solution

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="LhnsJi4KtAI" %}<br>

EDSFF (Enterprise and Data Center SSD Form Factor) SSD has been widely adopted in hyper-scale data centers because of superior manageability, serviceability, and power/thermal characteristics. The new form factor provides high performance (support up to PCIe Gen6) and high capacity (up to 128TB), and allows to support new type of devices like NIC, accelerator, and CXL DRAM device in a system. However, adopting of EDSFF in NVMe-oF system is non-trivial. For example, with EDSFF SSD, the capacity of single storage server can easily have Petabyte in total. In order to manage these resources efficiently, we must consider a number of factors such as CPU resource allocation and scheduling, memory management, and network bandwidth. In this talk, we would like to compare two EDSFF form factor E1 and E3. We will also discuss challenges and opportunities for adopting the new form factor in NVMe-oF storage system in both HW and SW. We especially want to share two server architectures highly optimized for E1 and E3, respectively. Moreover, we will present user-space software stack for NVMe-oF solution that enables up to 400GbE performance over TCP network and manages petabyte scale capacity with low overhead of metadata. Finally, we will share the performance measurement methodology for systems equipped with large quantities of EDSFF NVMe SSDs.

Learning Objectives
Learn EDSFF SSD
Learn NVMe-oF storage system
Learn server architecture for E1 and E3 SSDs
learn user-space software stack for NVMe-oF

Presented by
Duckho Bae
Samsung Electronics

Jungsoo Kim
Samsung Electronics
Learn More:
SDC Website: https://storagedeveloper.org
SNIA Website: https://snia.org/
SNIA Educational Library: https://snia.org/library
Twitter: https://twitter.com/SNIASDC